# Deploy NGINX on an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Cluster using Bitnami Marketplace K8s application

This guide demonstrates how to deploy NGINX on an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster using the Bitnami NGINX Helm chart and includes instructions for basic usage.

NGINX Open Source is a web server that can be also used as a reverse proxy, load balancer, and HTTP cache. Recommended for high-demanding sites due to its ability to provide faster content.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

1. **Kubernetes cluster**: A running AKS Kubernetes cluster
2. **kubectl**: The Kubernetes command-line tool is installed and configured to interact with your cluster.

## Deployment and quick start

WIP

### Access NGINX

1. NGINX can be accessed through the following DNS name from within your cluster:

```text
nginx.default.svc.cluster.local (port 80)
```

1. To access NGINX from outside the cluster, get the NGINX URL by running these commands:

```console
export SERVICE_PORT=$(kubectl get --namespace default -o jsonpath="{.spec.ports[0].port}" services nginx)
export SERVICE_IP=$(kubectl get svc --namespace default nginx -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
echo "http://${SERVICE_IP}:${SERVICE_PORT}"
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Depending on the deployment parameters, you may need to adjust the above commands, such as changing the namespace or deployment name.

## Configuration and installation details

### Resource requests and limits

Bitnami charts allow setting resource requests and limits for all containers inside the chart deployment. These are inside the `resources` value (check parameter table). Setting requests is essential for production workloads and these should be adapted to your specific use case.

To make this process easier, the chart contains the `resourcesPreset` values, which automatically sets the `resources` section according to different presets. Check these presets in [the bitnami/common chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/blob/main/bitnami/common/templates/_resources.tpl#L15). However, in production workloads using `resourcesPreset` is discouraged as it may not fully adapt to your specific needs. Find more information on container resource management in the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/).

### Securing traffic using TLS

Nginx can encrypt communications by setting `tls.enabled=true`. The chart allows two configuration options:

- Provide your own secret using the `tls.certificatesSecret` value. Also set the correct name of the certificate files using the `tls.certFilename`, `tls.certKeyFilename` and `tls.certCAFilename` values.
- Have the chart auto-generate the certificates using `tls.autoGenerated=true`.

### Backup and restore

To back up and restore Helm chart deployments on Kubernetes, you need to back up the persistent volumes from the source deployment and attach them to a new deployment using [Velero](https://velero.io/), a Kubernetes backup/restore tool. Find the instructions for using Velero in [this guide](https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/vmware-tanzu/application-catalog/tanzu-application-catalog/services/tac-doc/apps-tutorials-backup-restore-deployments-velero-index.html).

### Deploying your custom web application

The NGINX chart allows you to deploy a custom web application using one of the following methods:

- Cloning from a git repository: Set `cloneStaticSiteFromGit.enabled` to `true` and set the repository and branch using the `cloneStaticSiteFromGit.repository` and `cloneStaticSiteFromGit.branch` parameters. A sidecar will also pull the latest changes in an interval set by `cloneStaticSitesFromGit.interval`.
- Providing a ConfigMap: Set the `staticSiteConfigmap` value to mount a ConfigMap in the NGINX html folder.
- Using an existing PVC: Set the `staticSitePVC` value to mount an PersistentVolumeClaim with the static site content.

You can deploy a example web application using git deploying the chart with the following parameters:

```yaml
cloneStaticSiteFromGit:
  enabled: true
  repository: https://github.com/mdn/beginner-html-site-styled.git
  branch: master
```

### Providing a custom server block

This helm chart supports using custom custom server block for NGINX to use.

You can use the `serverBlock` or `streamServerBlock` value to provide a custom server block for NGINX to use. To do this, create a values files with your server block and install the chart using it:

```yaml
serverBlock: |-
  server {
    listen 0.0.0.0:8080;
    location / {
      return 200 "hello!";
    }
  }
```

> Warning: The above example is not compatible with enabling Prometheus metrics since it affects the `/status` endpoint.

In addition, you can also set an external ConfigMap with the configuration file. This is done by setting the `existingServerBlockConfigmap` parameter. Note that this will override the previous option.

### Adding extra environment variables

In case you want to add extra environment variables (useful for advanced operations like custom init scripts), you can use the `extraEnvVars` property.

```yaml
extraEnvVars:
  - name: LOG_LEVEL
    value: error
```

Alternatively, you can use a ConfigMap or a Secret with the environment variables. To do so, use the `extraEnvVarsCM` or the `extraEnvVarsSecret` values.

### Setting Pod's affinity

This chart allows you to set your custom affinity using the `affinity` parameter. Find more information about Pod's affinity in the [kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity).

As an alternative, you can use of the preset configurations for pod affinity, pod anti-affinity, and node affinity available at the [bitnami/common](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/common#affinity) chart. To do so, set the `podAffinityPreset`, `podAntiAffinityPreset`, or `nodeAffinityPreset` parameters.

### Deploying extra resources

There are cases where you may want to deploy extra objects, such a ConfigMap containing your app's configuration or some extra deployment with a micro service used by your app. For covering this case, the chart allows adding the full specification of other objects using the `extraDeploy` parameter.

### Ingress

This chart provides support for ingress resources. If you have an ingress controller installed on your cluster, such as [nginx-ingress-controller](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/nginx-ingress-controller) or [contour](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/contour) you can utilize the ingress controller to serve your application.

To enable ingress integration, please set `ingress.enabled` to `true`.

#### Hosts

Most likely you will only want to have one hostname that maps to this NGINX installation. If that's your case, the property `ingress.hostname` will set it. However, it is possible to have more than one host. To facilitate this, the `ingress.extraHosts` object can be specified as an array. You can also use `ingress.extraTLS` to add the TLS configuration for extra hosts.

For each host indicated at `ingress.extraHosts`, please indicate a `name`, `path`, and any `annotations` that you may want the ingress controller to know about.

For annotations, please see [this document](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/docs/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations.md). Not all annotations are supported by all ingress controllers, but this document does a good job of indicating which annotation is supported by many popular ingress controllers.

### Prometheus metrics

This chart can be integrated with Prometheus by setting `metrics.enabled` to `true`. This will deploy a sidecar container with [nginx-prometheus-exporter](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-prometheus-exporter) in all pods and will expose it via the Nginx service. This service will be have the necessary annotations to be automatically scraped by Prometheus.

#### Prometheus requirements

It is necessary to have a working installation of Prometheus or Prometheus Operator for the integration to work. Install the [Bitnami Prometheus helm chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/prometheus) or the [Bitnami Kube Prometheus helm chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/kube-prometheus) to easily have a working Prometheus in your cluster.

#### Integration with Prometheus Operator

The chart can deploy `ServiceMonitor` objects for integration with Prometheus Operator installations. To do so, set the value `metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled=true`. Ensure that the Prometheus Operator `CustomResourceDefinitions` are installed in the cluster or it will fail with the following error:

```text
no matches for kind "ServiceMonitor" in version "monitoring.coreos.com/v1"
```

Install the [Bitnami Kube Prometheus helm chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/kube-prometheus) for having the necessary CRDs and the Prometheus Operator.
